hello everyone this is a vlog for my
youtube channel I'm going to be doing
more vlogs along with the Travis talks
vlogs are a little bit more personal and
less related to like a central issue or
problem that I see in the League of
Legends eSports space and they are more
just general topics things about me or
about what's going on with me or in this
case just answering a general topic that
I get a lot maybe I'll do some Q&A zin
this etc but now I have this new fancy
outline thank you to Benson who helped
me out a former colleague of mine from
GameSpot so let's get into it the topic
in question that I get so often multiple
times a week probably at least once a
day via Instagram or snapchat or
Facebook or email or through my website
or any least number different things is
Travis cafard how do I get this job in
eSports how do I get a job in eSports or
how do I become a content creator or how
do I become an interviewer or I really
want to become a pro player or any
number of different things and I can
tell you that I am certainly not the
only person who gets this question I
think a lot of different people in
eSports get to get this question and I
apologize because I virtually never
respond to them anymore because I get so
many of them and they are all of varying
levels of length and sometimes people
send sa long stories about what is going
on in their life and some of the
personal struggles they've had and how
much eSports means to them and how much
they like my content or whatever and it
is I feel really guilty that I don't
reply to all these things but I swear to
god I'd be spending several hours each
week replying to them and I don't think
that I have really have a great answer
for them and certainly in a lot of the
specific situations I can't always give
them personal advice on what's going on
their life or anything so it's a very
long long way of saying that I'm going
to do this one video now to sort of give
the one answer that I give to everybody
whenever I get this question twitch chat
or elsewhere and then I can link to it
later on and hopefully people will like
it I did do a video kind of like this a
couple of years ago but I didn't have a
beard so here's a new updated version of
it so you want to work in eSports well
unfortunately let me tell you something
there is no direct path to getting a job
at eSports you know if you want to be a
software engineer or video game engineer
sometimes I can you know somebody would
tell you go to this college or go to a
college and get this degree and create
this type of portfolio and apply to
these different companies and say these
different things and you will get access
to becoming a video game programmer or a
software engineer or whatever there's
nothing like that for eSport certainly
not for most jobs in eSports right now
because eSports is still a relatively
new thing
there's no set path and if you ask most
people they will have wildly different
paths of how they got into eSports I do
find it kind of funny that a lot of
people ask me how to get in eSports when
I I as many people know just fell into
it kind of kind of you know I everybody
knows I started living with doublelift
right at the start of his career that
enabled me to sort of start my career
and inspired me to start my career doing
actually what I thought was going to be
a hobby and then that became something
where I was doing more and more content
decided to make it a full-time job
eventually jumped into it and Here I am
so as you can tell that's a weird
situation you know I'm living with
doublelift and that granted me unique
access and the time no one was creating
content in League of Legends eSports and
so I was just able to do it and then
people could watch it because there was
literally no other content with the pro
players very different circumstance from
what exists now so you can't just
replicate what I do I'll give you
another good example it's a guy named
Steve Perry no joke is Steve used to
work more with the Team Liquid league of
legends team he doesn't as much anymore
now I believe works more with their csgo
team but he just was playing video games
one night and started playing with Steve
big Steve from Team Liquid and they
became friends through that which
eventually he got off for this job being
a manager you know it is a lot about
like who you know and also the random
situations that pop up but you can also
do things to help yourself out so that
gets me to the biggest answer I will
give you for the question of how to get
in the eSports and that's what you start
doing something anything this is
something that way back in 2011 a friend
of mine Sean who day9 you may know from
the Starcraft scene he recently did some
stuff at ti his big piece of advice was
just start doing something creating
something doing whatever
so I'm bumping my microphone because I'm
getting so excited just start doing
something so you might notice that my
story I created a podcast and I started
to do it like let me give you another
good example Avila Mei Avila may some of
you may know worked with me at Yahoo she
started doing interviews and trading off
weekends with me I kind of helped to get
her to a place where she was comfortable
doing the interviews and kind of gave
her some coaching eventually she was
able to do it on her own and most
recently got picked up by Riot Games to
be the host for their North American
broadcasts doing interviews on broadcast
you know there were so many people that
would love that job she was able to do
this basically you know after six months
of starting to work with me at Yahoo and
while that is a unusually fast time I
will tell you how this all kind of
happened so she'd been following eSports
for a while and she had started doing
work at the collegiate level there's a
video over on the Yahoo eSports YouTube
channel where she talks about how she
got into collegiate eSports she didn't
have very many friends in high school
she decided to help create this club ran
it that gave her connections within the
eSports industry and how now we'll talk
about how she got her job at Yahoo
specifically she knew somebody at Yahoo
asked about internships I kind of got
word from it a wind of it from there I
probably would not have followed up on
it except for a little while later I
noticed that she did a YouTube video
where she was doing a kind of like
collegiate overwatch update on all the
things that were happening in collegiate
overwatch I believe this is still over
on her youtube channel you can probably
find it and for me I was very inspired
by the fact we're really impressed by
the fact that on her own she was doing
her own content which is way a step
above most people who just sort of say
how do I get into this I want to get in
this that she just started creating
something I saw it I was impressed by it
especially for the fact that she was
still very entry-level at the time and I
saw a lot of potential so I contacted
her we brought her into Yahoo originally
tried some different tasks that were
not in front of the camera but gave her
a chance in front of the camera it
worked out six months later she has a
job so she started doing something and
that is the advice that I have to give
everyone here is to figure out maybe
something that you want to do and start
moving in that direction or just try to
get connected a great example of this
for college students is to start working
for your college club because actually a
lot of different stuff comes out of
glede at the college level for eSports
you can work as a president you can work
as a you know somebody on the staff and
I can help you out a lot you could
compete for your collegiate team and
learn a lot there you could try to coach
or be an analyst for the collegiate team
there's a lot of different options there
that will I think help you a lot you can
start to kind of get some connections
and some greater understanding of the
eSport space but there's a lot of
different things so just I wrote down
some ideas I don't know if gold pretend
is still doing this but for a while you
anybody could apply to work for gold
pretend which is a like a eSports
blogging website and get paid some money
based on views that you're doing there
but it's not really about the money it's
about the fact that you can write and
have content there you know if you want
to start doing some you know simple
analyst work or some simple writing you
can actually post that stuff directly to
Reddit and there's no chance or no
guarantee I should say that that's going
to get a lot of uploads and get notes
but there's a chance great and again if
it does start and maybe doesn't happen
on the first time or the second time or
the tenth time but eventually you might
be able to get onto that front page and
that's going to give you a lot of
exposure a lot of people have succeeded
that way you can do some preliminary
analyst work or coaching work I guess I
should say analyst work like if you're
doing spreadsheets or helping to go over
stuff and you can start pitching this to
different levels of teams from the
Challenger level to the collegiate level
- all the way to the LCS level and maybe
they'll be impressed with the work that
you've done and they'll try to do
something there you can literally just
straight up apply for jobs so again it's
really important to have some sort of
thing that you've done or you know even
if it's as simple as like hey I work
for a regional eSports group that is in
the Midwest and we throw little amateur
tournaments locally you know these types
of things that can really help you out
Annie Callen what we'll take another
example of how so many got into eSports
Nick Allen a buddy of mine he
volunteered to do I think it was like
stage manager or very little work it was
like very something entry level and on
the starcraft stage for IPL and then
this is way back when I peel is the
thing IgM Pro League and then started
working a very entry-level job at IPL
working on League of Legends stuff
didn't really shouldn't care about
League of Legends that much at the time
that ended up getting him a job at riot
when IPL in a way and then that ended up
getting him a job at twitch and now he
runs their whole eSports division so
it's very easy still you know it's maybe
a little bit easier before when eSports
was on its way to blowing up it's still
very easy to go from something as a
volunteer position to something that is
full-time to something that is bigger
and better also ideas that I put down
just hanging out in chats and tweeting
it people consistently and I kind of
thing you know if you are somebody that
is putting yourself out there and
interacting with team owners or managers
or folks in the space and you can start
to build this relationship with them and
again if you have like a body of work or
something that they can be made aware of
instead of just shooting them an email
out of nowhere you know you can kind of
work on on getting these connections and
relationships in the and the scene and
by the way because of the way the
internet works there you don't really
need that geographic location some other
things I wrote down is that you know
besides there being no direct path to
getting in and besides the fact that you
really want to start doing something I
would recommend that you don't do
anything where you expect to get a job
out of it immediately you know some
people will say something like you know
or they'll have the belief that they can
go from working a tech support job or a
you know whatever job in the world an
accounting or some crazy regular job and
then you will just apply for a job any
sports having no experience or have
done that thing and then you will just
transition over to it and by the way
there's a chance that that could happen
but I think the better path for you to
think about is that you will start you
will go get a day job or you will keep
your job you will start something as a
hobby and you will start it for the
right reasons because you think that
this is something where you can really
contribute again it's any of these kind
of like volunteer entry-level jobs
I'm not saying work for free forever or
whatever but you can start to do
something just out of the passion that
you feel for what you're doing and
hopefully it'll grow organically over
time that is actually a very common
story so yeah I would say you know do
something for the right reasons and also
don't expect to make a job out of it
immediately you're building your way
into the industry over time this kind of
goes along with what I said earlier
about hanging out and chats or tweeting
at people consistently or having a
presence on writing reddit but making
connections and relationships is very
very helpful and you can do that not
just by directly emailing people but by
going and meeting people at events by
you know talking to them online via
social media platforms any number of
different things you know I think there
are a lot of people that have gone to
this industry just by communicating with
people frequently online and then the
final thing is again once you've started
doing this work this volunteer work or
whatever the passionate project you're
working on you know make sure that you
have something that you can show so in a
lot of situations you know if it is
something where you want to be a
journalist or you want to get into media
having a youtube channel even if people
aren't watching your videos you're
building a portfolio of work or if
nobody's reading your stuff you are
building a portfolio of writing and
written content if it is something where
you are working on the event side you
know showing like these are the events
that I've worked at here's what we have
accomplished here was the role that I
had here and here's like the things that
I was able to do you know by the way one
job that people really need help with
these days are sales jobs there's a huge
drought of people who can help work with
sponsors both to secure sponsorships for
their teams or their leagues or whatever
but also to
maintain those relationships so for
instance if you were part of a regional
group and you were able to you know
pitch to several different hardware
manufacturers or you know whatever small
more endemic sponsors to get resources
that you need for your event you can
sort of show that as an example of like
I was able to secure this stuff if you
do go into interview or if you do have
conversations with people so yeah you
know just to summarize I think it's
really important for people to realize
there's no direct path to get in but
that you should start doing something
anything look for those opportunities
even if you can't do something with
other people try to come up with
something on your own you should not
expect this to be a job immediately and
you should be doing it for the right
reasons the right reasons being not like
I'm going to start making a ton of cash
but because you really like it and that
you are proud of this and that you think
it's something that can help the
industry you should work on your
connections and your relationships and
you can do that in a variety of
different ways and I would recommend
that you do it subtly don't just start
cold calling people or sending emails to
people because well that might work and
you never know what you're going to get
in response I think there's a you know
kind of a more strategic or better more
friendly way to go about it and then
just again having work that you can show
or something like that so this is my
advice on how to get into eSports I'm
sorry that I don't have just some
blanket solution for you and if you did
email me or you did contact me and I
just link to this video I'm sorry that I
was so short risk with you doing this
but again it's just hard to respond to
this question so many different ways
hopefully you've enjoyed watching if you
do like this video please feel free to
subscribe or like or any of those
standard YouTube things that you can do
and also there's a link right here if
you do feel like doing anything or
supporting me in some different way
there's some options over there that
include financial support but that helps
because everybody Ed blocks this stuff
to and that's my video so anyway
thanks for watching hopefully this has
been helpful feel free to leave your
thoughts in the comments as well